Hamas has also released 10 Thai hostages
taken during the October 7th attacks
Thai authorities released images of
their citizens with one Filipino in an
Israeli Hospital Bangkok had been
engaging for weeks in its own diplomatic
talks to free its Nationals held by
Hamas the deal was separate to the one
which saw the Israeli hostages released
but happened at the same
time Philip sherwell is a journalist
based in ta Capital Bangkok hello
Phillip now 10 Thai Nationals released
from Hamas captivity how has the news
been received by the people in
Thailand well for for the for the
families of the 10 the nine men and and
one woman there is overwhelming relief
and joy they have spoken of you know not
being able to wait much longer to sort
of see their loved ones now that they've
seen these images of them in in
hospitals in a hospital in in Israel and
and initially saw photos of them sort of
on the TV screens being um being handed
over um last night so so for them an
adul of Joy but another 20 ties are um
still being held hostage it's believed
and those families are are in the dark
um they they really don't know what's
happening um and and they're extremely
they're extremely worried I mean there
is um as your previous speaker was
mentioning there are different factions
within Gaza and um it's been made clear
that the ties are being held by
different groups there so um although
one group is out um it's no guarantee
for the others so it's a it's a
nerve-wracking time for the uh for the
families of the remaining workers I mean
on the 20 TI Nationals that are still
being held captive is there a sense of
what the government is doing to try to
get them back
home well Thailand has actually been
pursuing its own sort of diplomatic
behind the scenes course on these
hostages um it's um foreign minister has
traveled to Qatar and Egypt but also
although Thailand is a predominantly
Buddhist country there is a Muslim
minority here and um leaders of the
Muslim Community U traveled to tan to
meet Iranian and Hamas officials and the
Iranian foreign Deputy foreign minister
was just in Bangkok so tand has been
very much working with Iran given it's a
major sponsor of Hamas to negotiate um
back Channel sort of ways to get their
people out so that's that's what they're
pursuing for the remaining for the
remaining 20 but um they may be dealing
with groups other than Hamas within Gaza
also how has the Tha government been
addressing the safety and of its
citizens still working in
Israel yes well Thailand there were
30,000 Ties working in Israel before the
October 7 attacks um predominantly in
the agriculture sector as migrant
workers um about the the the Thai
government encouraged everybody to
return back to Thailand and laid on
repatriation flights about 8 and a half
thousand Tha have returned but more than
20,000 have chosen to remain they are
working in areas further away from Gaza
and the immediate fighting um and also
you have to remember they are from poor
you know poorer areas of Thailand rural
areas and they were getting much larger
wages in Israel than they would have
been in Thailand they traveled there for
economic reasons um overwhelmingly male
workers to send money back for their
families and um many have decided to
stay and the uh the Thai government has
left the option open if they want to
return but otherwise is working with the
Israelis and Israeli employment agencies
to try and make sure they are safe on
the ground okay journalist Philip
sherwell in Bangkok thank you
thank
you